doc: add guideline for RTVM workload design (#3343)
projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor: doc/tutorials/rtvm_workload_design_guideline.rst

.. _rtvm_workload_guideline:

Guidelines to the workload design in an RTVM
############################################

> For a RTOS designer/developer, if he/she want to run the RTOS based on ARCN RTVM,

Reviewer: It's best to avoid using ``he/she``, so instead, write this as:
```
An RTOS developer must be aware of the differences between
running applications on a native platform and a real time virtual
machine (RTVM), especially issues impacting real time
performance.  For example, a real time thread should
avoid using VM-Exit.  If VM-Exit is used, the developer must
account for an additional margin of CPU cycles for
the added run time cost.

This document provides some workload design guidelines when
using an RTVM within the ACRN hypervisor.
```

Author: @dbkinder , thanks for the comments, please review the new commit

he/she must be aware of the difference between native platform and virtual machine,
especially those will impact real time capability.
Generally speaking, the designer/developer should try to avoid VM-Exit when running
a RT thread, or he/she must consider adding additional margin of CPU cycles for the
cost of VM-Exit.

> Best Practice: Run RTVM with dedicated resources/devices

Reviewer: Is this the only topic that's a "Best Practice"? I'd recommend leaving off the "Best Practice:" beginning of this title.

********************************************************

> ACRN allocates dedicated CPU, memory resources, cache resources (with Cache Allocations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACRN allocates dedicated CPU, memory resources, and cache resources (using  Cache Allocations
```

> Technology, i.e. CAT)  to RTVMs. For I/O devices, we suggest to use dedicated (pass-thru)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Technology, i.e. CAT)  to RTVMs. For best real time performance  of
I/O devices, we recommend using dedicated (pass-thru)
```

> PCIe devices to avoid VM-Exit at run time for best real time performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PCIe devices to avoid VM-Exit at run time.
```

> NOTE: for pass-thru PCI device, its configure space is still emulated and the access will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The configuration space for pass-thru PCI devices is still emulated and the access will
```

> trigger VM-Exit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
trigger a VM-Exit.
```

> RTVM with virtio PMD(Polling Mode Driver) for I/O sharing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RTVM with virtio PMD (Polling Mode Driver) for I/O sharing
```
(and lengthen the heading underline)

*********************************************************

> If the RTVM has to use shared devices for some reason, ACRN recommend to use PMD drivers,

Reviewer: How about:
```
If the RTVM must use shared devices, we recommend using PMD drivers
that can eliminate the unpredictable latency caused by guest I/O
trap-and-emulate access. The RTVM workload must be aware that the
packets in the PMD driver may arrive or be sent later than expected. 
```

which can eliminate the unpredictable latency in trap-and-emulate the guest I/O access.
However, one needs to be aware that the packet in PMD driver may arrive or be sent later
than expected. The workload in RT VM must be aware of for better RT behavior.

RTVM with HV Emulated Device
****************************

ACRN uses hypervisor emulated virtual UART (vUART) devices for inter-VM synchronization

> such as logging output, or command send/receive. The vUART can only works in polling mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such as logging output, or command send/receive. Currently, the vUART
only works in polling mode, but may be extended to support interrupt
mode in a future release.
```

too at moment, and may be extended to support interrupt mode in future(TODO). In the

> meantime, the RT workload, using vUART, shall reserve margin of CPU cycles to accommodate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meantime, for better RT behavior, the RT workload using the vUART shall reserve a margin of CPU cycles to accommodate
```

> the additional latency, introduced by the VM-Exit to the vUART I/O registers(~2000--3000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the additional latency introduced by the VM-Exit to the vUART I/O registers (~2000--3000
```

cycles per register access), for better RT behavior.

> DM emulated device (Except PMD) – DO NOT use

Reviewer: Change to:
```
DM emulated device (Except PMD)
*******************************
We recommend not using DM-emulated devices in a RTVM.
```

.. _rtvm_workload_guideline:

> Guidelines to the workload design in an RTVM

Reviewer 2: Could we rephrase this as "Guidelines for designing an application to run in an RTVM"?

@dbkinder thoughts?

############################################

An RTOS developer must be aware of the differences between running applications on a native
platform and a real time virtual machine (RTVM), especially issues impacting real time

> performance. For example, a real time thread should avoid using VM-Exit. If VM-Exit is used,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
performance. For example, a real time thread should avoid triggering any ``vmexit``. If ``vmexit`` are triggered,
```

> the developer must account for an additional margin of CPU cycles for the added run time cost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the developer must account for an additional margin of CPU cycles for the incremental runtime.
```

This document provides some workload design guidelines when using an RTVM within the ACRN hypervisor.

Run RTVM with dedicated resources/devices
*****************************************

> For best practice, ACRN allocates dedicated CPU, memory resources, and cache resources (with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For best practice, ACRN allocates dedicated CPU, memory resources, and cache resources (using Intel
```

> Cache Allocations Technology, i.e. CAT) to RTVMs. For best real time performance of I/O devices,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cache Allocation Technology, aka CAT) to RTVMs. For best real time performance of I/O devices,
```

> we recommend using dedicated (pass-thru) PCIe devices to avoid VM-Exit at run time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we recommend using dedicated (pass-thru) PCIe devices to avoid ``vmexit`` at runtime.
```

> NOTE: The configuration space for pass-thru PCI devices is still emulated and the access will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note::
   The configuration space for pass-thru PCI devices is still emulated and the access will
```

> trigger a VM-Exit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
trigger a ``vmexit``.
```

Reviewer 3: SDM uses "VM-Exit", so our doc is better to stay with

RTVM with virtio PMD (Polling Mode Driver) for I/O sharing
**********************************************************

If the RTVM must use shared devices, we recommend using PMD drivers that can eliminate the
unpredictable latency caused by guest I/O trap-and-emulate access. The RTVM workload must be
aware that the packets in the PMD driver may arrive or be sent later than expected. The workload

> in RTVM must be aware of for better RT behavior.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this last sentence, I suspect there is a word missing somewhere, or punctuation.

RTVM with HV Emulated Device
****************************

ACRN uses hypervisor emulated virtual UART (vUART) devices for inter-VM synchronization such as
logging output, or command send/receive.  Currently, the vUART only works in polling mode, but
may be extended to support interrupt mode in a future release. In the meantime, for better RT

> behavior, the RT workload using the vUART shall reserve a margin of CPU cycles to accommodate

Reviewer 2: @dbkinder shouldn't that be "to accomodate **for**"

the additional latency introduced by the VM-Exit to the vUART I/O registers(~2000--3000 cycles

> per register access), for better RT behavior.

Reviewer 2: "for better RT behavior" is repeated twice in here.

DM emulated device (Except PMD)
*******************************

> We recommend not using DM-emulated devices in a RTVM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend to **not** use DM-emulated devices in an RTVM.
```

.. _rtvm_workload_guideline:

Real time VM application design guidelines
##########################################

An RTOS developer must be aware of the differences between running applications on a native
platform and a real time virtual machine (RTVM), especially issues impacting real time
performance. For example, a real time thread should avoid triggering any VM-Exit. If a VM-Exit
is triggered, the developer must account for an additional margin of CPU cycles for the
incremental runtime overhead.

This document provides some application design guidelines when using an RTVM within the ACRN hypervisor.

Run RTVM with dedicated resources/devices
*****************************************

For best practice, ACRN allocates dedicated CPU, memory resources, and cache resources (using Intel
Cache Allocation Technology, aka CAT) to RTVMs. For best real time performance of I/O devices,
we recommend using dedicated (pass-thru) PCIe devices to avoid VM-Exit at run time.

.. note::

>    The configuration space for pass-thru PCI devices is still emulated and the accessing it will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The configuration space for pass-thru PCI devices is still emulated and accessing it will
```

   trigger a VM-Exit.

RTVM with virtio PMD (Polling Mode Driver) for I/O sharing
**********************************************************

If the RTVM must use shared devices, we recommend using PMD drivers that can eliminate the
unpredictable latency caused by guest I/O trap-and-emulate access. The RTVM application must be
aware that the packets in the PMD driver may arrive or be sent later than expected.

RTVM with HV Emulated Device
****************************

ACRN uses hypervisor emulated virtual UART (vUART) devices for inter-VM synchronization such as
logging output, or command send/receive.  Currently, the vUART only works in polling mode, but
may be extended to support interrupt mode in a future release. In the meantime, for better RT
behavior, the RT application using the vUART shall reserve a margin of CPU cycles to accommodate

> for the additional latency introduced by the VM-Exit to the vUART I/O registers (~2000--3000 cycles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the additional latency introduced by the VM-Exit to the vUART I/O registers (~2000-3000 cycles
```

.. _rtvm_workload_guideline:

Guidelines to the workload design in an RTVM
############################################

An RTOS developer must be aware of the differences between running applications on a native
platform and a real time virtual machine (RTVM), especially issues impacting real time
performance. For example, a real time thread should avoid triggering any VM-Exit. If a VM-Exit
is triggered, the developer must account for an additional margin of CPU cycles for the
incremental runtime.

This document provides some workload design guidelines when using an RTVM within the ACRN hypervisor.

Run RTVM with dedicated resources/devices
*****************************************

For best practice, ACRN allocates dedicated CPU, memory resources, and cache resources (using Intel

> Cache Allocations Technology, aka CAT) to RTVMs. For best real time performance of I/O devices,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cache Allocation Technology, aka CAT) to RTVMs. For best real time performance of I/O devices,
```

we recommend using dedicated (pass-thru) PCIe devices to avoid VM-Exit at run time.

.. note::
   The configuration space for pass-thru PCI devices is still emulated and the access will
   trigger a VM-Exit.

RTVM with virtio PMD (Polling Mode Driver) for I/O sharing
**********************************************************

If the RTVM must use shared devices, we recommend using PMD drivers that can eliminate the
unpredictable latency caused by guest I/O trap-and-emulate access. The RTVM workload must be
aware that the packets in the PMD driver may arrive or be sent later than expected. The workload

> in RTVM must be aware of that for better RT behavior.

Reviewer: We can delete this last sentence: ``The workload in ... for better RT behavior.``

RTVM with HV Emulated Device
****************************

ACRN uses hypervisor emulated virtual UART (vUART) devices for inter-VM synchronization such as
logging output, or command send/receive.  Currently, the vUART only works in polling mode, but
may be extended to support interrupt mode in a future release. In the meantime, for better RT

> behavior, the RT workload using the vUART shall reserve a margin of CPU cycles to accommodate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
behavior, the RT application using the vUART should reserve a margin of CPU cycles to accommodate
```

> for the additional latency introduced by the VM-Exit to the vUART I/O registers(~2000--3000 cycles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the additional latency introduced by the VM-Exit to the vUART I/O registers (~2000-3000 cycles
```

per register access).

DM emulated device (Except PMD)
*******************************

> We recommend to **not** use DM-emulated devices in a RTVM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend **not** using DM-emulated devices in a RTVM.
```
